Let's take a look at this arm band Gauntlett glove type thing that we've got on the character.
I think I'd like to begin sculpting on it but right now it's very thin it's just one sided.
And I'd like to give it a little bit of thickness.
Now I could use the solidify modifier on this but what I think I'll do for this one is just tab and
edit moment here press control tab and choose edge and I'm just going to all to click the edge is here
to select that whole edge loop and all I'll do is just hit the e key and extrude and then I'll hit the
ESC key and just scale in and I'm just scaling in right into the hand there and that gives it the illusion
of thickness at least.
So I'll do the same thing here with me and then ask for scale.
And I'll do that up here.
Now what I'd like to know is how much of this thing is going to collapse or will this thing collapse
too much when I add the multi resolution modifier or is it just going to collapse into a blob or is
it going to hold some of these edges fairly well one way to test that it's just instead of using a multi
resolution just add a subdivision surface and maybe move this view up to two and you can kind of get
a sense of what's going to happen with that multi resolution modifier.
And that I think is collapsing a little too much.
I'd like to have the edges a little tighter when I collapse that.
Now I can of course go in and sculpt and pinch these edges but I think it's sometimes a little easier
to just add a few edge loops to hold them.
So tab in the edit mode and you can kind of see now the cage over the smooth geometry and I'll just
press control are and kind of drag that up and just try and hold that edge just a little bit better.
Maybe one in here as well.
I don't want it too tight just something.
So it doesn't collapse terribly.
And of course in the sculpting process I can always smooth those edges out a bit.
So I'm not too worried about that.
I'll go in and do the same thing in here for this one I think I'll just add an edge loop inside here
and pull it out some and see if I can get one around here.
And maybe in here as well.
So that just helps hold the edges just a little bit better than they would have otherwise.
So now that I've done that I can come back over here to this subdivision surfaces modifier and just
remove it.
And now I can begin again with the multi resolution one.
So I've got a couple of reference images over here I've got this one from my drawing.
These drawings are really just kind of ideas for me to go toward.
I don't really know exactly what I was doing here and how that's going to look on the 3D model or what
that's going to be but it's just something to move towards.
I've got this reference image here.
I like the little seams or thread lines here on the model I think I want to somehow get that kind of
thing on there.
And although I don't want these buckles I thought these were nice in that they kind of mirrored what
I was doing here.
So I just wanted this up while I'm sculpting so I have some sort of visual reference.
All right so let's give this a try.
I'll go ahead and add a multi resolution modifier to this and click subdivide and there's one there's
two go ahead and hit it with three for now and see how that works.
Also come over here to the Tools tab and under shading and click on smooth and that'll smooth that up
quite a bit.
So now I'm going to go over to sculpt mode here and click sculpt and let's see what we can do here.
I'm just going to click on the icon and go straight over to the sculpt draw tool and just to test this
out.
Let's see about my strength of the brush.
Just try that.
It's not too bad.
I think I can work with this for now just to bring the shape of the glove out a bit.
I'm going to probably need to add a subdivision or two to get more detail on it.
But for now let's work with this.
Bring the strength down a bit
increase the radius let's just see what we can do here.
Just want to sculpt this out and get this out over the palm of the hand here.
And if I press shift and stroke it will smooth it back a bit.
I just want to hint at some of the structure in the hand just by sculpting out a bit here.
Bring that out.
Maybe I need more volume over the hand here the top of the hand
and down here around the arm.
I'll bring these out a bit to
looking a little too much like a cast.
Like he broke his arm so when I want to do is bring in the wrist some I think and I'll just use the
Shift key to smooth that in see if that'll work some and I'll also use the Control key I'll push that
and stroke in that will cut in just a bit into the glove here.
And I think I'd like to pull this edge out just a bit so I'll go over to the grab tool here.
And maybe increase the size by pushing the F key and moving the mouse a bit.
I just want to drag that out just a hair to get the shape of that arm piece a little bit wider They're
come around the bottom and do the same thing.
I think.
All right.
So I think now I want to start working on these bands whatever these are.
I'm not exactly sure I think there are more decorative overlays rather than actual bands.
So what I'm going to do is come over to the mask tool here and I'll press the F key and reduce the size
of the brush a bit and I think I'll just use the mass to kind of draw out these things and then sculpt
them out from there.
So let's see if I take the mast tool and I'll just begin here and just draw out what I think might be
one of those bands here.
Let's just test this before I do all the rest of them here let's just test one and see what we think.
So now that I have that press control I to invert the mask and then let's just come over to let's use
the clay strips and I'll increase the brush size a bit maybe reduce the strength and let me just try
and gently sculpt in here with clay strips.
See what I can get.
OK so now I can come down here to hide mask and I can clear the mask here or I can press Alt.
Am so clear that.
So we've got the beginnings of that strap or that inlay thing.
It's not real great and this is why I'm testing it here and I choose the pinch to here and let's come
in here.
See if we can pinch this a bit to make it a little tighter around the edges.
Something like this.
Something like that.
So you got kind of this hint of a strap there.
Now if the viewport isn't quite the way you want it if you're having trouble seeing what you're doing
here you can always change the way it's viewed with Blender's madcaps.
So I'm going to press the end key here to bring up the properties panel and imma scroll down here.
And right down here under shading.
You've got a selection for matte cap and if I click that you can see how the way the model is being
displayed is changing.
Now this doesn't affect how the model is rendered or will ultimately be seen but what it does is it
allows you to kind of get a better look at it here in the viewport.
So I'm going to click this ball icon and I can choose different types of materials that my model can
be viewed with.
So I kind of like this one here to be able to see what I'm doing.
Now you can choose any of them.
I mean this is an interesting line and this is interesting and that's a little too much.
But they're really good to kind of play with and see what kind of materials helps as you work on the
model.
So for me this one works pretty well.
So when you press the end key to close that again and that's about all I want.
Now there's another thing I wouldn't mind doing I might try and go back to the mast tool and really
shrink the brush down and then draw around this thing.
Let me see if this will work if I come around it here like this and I may need to add a subdivision
here to be able to do this.
Why don't I do that.
I'll undo that with control or command Z and I'll come over here and I'll add I'll add two more subdivisions
to it.
And now if I draw on it it's a little cleaner.
So I'm just going to draw a line all the way around here.
So what I want to do is add kind of a seam around it.
I'm not sure that this will work.
But it's fun to try.
All right so now I'm going to press control and I'm going to come back over to my sculped brush increased
the brush size and come in here and just sculpt just a little bit around this like this.
All right so now press all to him to clear it and it's OK but I think it's a little too much.
So maybe if I come back with the smooth tool I'm just going to press shift and smooth that back a bit
and maybe if I come in here with the inflate brush and zoom in here I can maybe inflate this up inside
here just a little bit so I'm just testing actually this is I was as I said sometimes I'll draw something
in the heat of the moment and not really understand or know how it's going to be translated into 3D
and sometimes you've just got to come in and test it out and see what you think.
That's kind of what I'm doing here.
And yeah I think that'll work pretty well so I'm going to go in and start working on the other pieces
like this and see what I can come up with.
So I'll go back to my mask tool and come in here and let's start masking this out again.
And I'll work on the next one here just right down here I think.
And even though I've got three little stripes down here on the top of the hand I think I just try to
do that and we try that and see how it works.
So I've got my masks laid out here.
I'll press control need to invert the selection there.
And let's go back to the scopes draw brush and give this a try.
We'll just use that to bring it out a bit.
All right so is press Alt.
Him to clear the mask.
And I actually like those better than that up there.
Well let's give this a try.
Now we could probably go in and smooth this out a bit smooth this back some
like so and go in and redo that.
Let's try it.
So now I'm going to go back and hit the mask brush and I'll just draw this out again because I like
the look of that better than I had before.
I think it's because I've increased the subdivisions here a bit.
So let's draw this out again and see if we can get that a little bit better.
All right so control I now go back to the sculpt draw brush and let's try this one.
And then Allt him to clear
and yeah I actually like that a little better than I had it with that seam around it.
So there you go.
I think I'm going to go with that for now.
The next thing for the glove would be to create these little threads seems along maybe the inside and
the outside edge and around the fingers and armhole here.
But in the end I think you can see that sometimes you just need to test sometimes you just need to jump
in and see what you can get because it's hard to know sometimes exactly what you're going for and exactly
what the tools can do for you.
So be sure and use a little trial and error in your art work.
You just never know what you can get.